docs/custom-flows/embedded-magic-links.mdx, before:

---
title: Embeddable magic links
description: Learn how to build custom magic link flows to increase user engagement and reduce drop off in transactional emails, SMS's, and anywhere else you can imagine.
---

# Embeddable magic links

A "magic link" is a link, that when pressed, will automatically authenticate your user, so that they can quickly perform some action on your site with less friction than if they had to sign in manually.

Common use cases include:

- Welcome emails, when users are added off a waitlist
- Promotional emails for users
- Recovering abandoned carts
- Surveys or questionnaires

## Creating magic links

Embeddable magic links leverage [sign-in tokens](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Sign-in-Tokens#operation/CreateSignInToken) which can be created from your backend.

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.clerk.com/v1/sign_in_tokens' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{bapi}}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "user_id": "user_28dVmJleKwFWrefTJN7skmrbtJi",
  }'
```

This will return a token, which can then be embedded as a query param in any link, something like:

`https://your-site.com/welcome?token=THE_TOKEN`

Once you have the link, this can be embedded anywhere, such as an email.

## Accepting magic links

Now that you have a way to process a token, you'll need to setup a page on your frontend to get the token from the query string, call the sign in function, then perform whatever action you originally had in mind.

Signing a user in with a token is very similar to all of our other custom flows.

<CodeBlockTabs type="framework" options={["Next.js", "React"]}>
```jsx filename="pages/accept-token.jsx"
import { InferGetServerSidePropsType, GetServerSideProps } from "next";
import { useUser, useSignIn } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";

// Grab the query param server side, and pass through props
export const getServerSideProps: GetServerSideProps = async (context) => {
  return {
    props: { signInToken: context.query.token ? context.query.token : null },
  };
};

const AcceptToken = ({
  signInToken,
}: InferGetServerSidePropsType<typeof getServerSideProps>) => {
  const { signIn, setActive } = useSignIn();
  const { user } = useUser();
  const [signInProcessed, setSignInProcessed] = useState<boolean>(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    if (!signIn || !setActive || !signInToken) {
      return;
    }

    const aFunc = async () => {
      try {
        // Create a signIn with the token, note that you need to use the "ticket" strategy.
        const res = await signIn.create({
          strategy: "ticket",
          ticket: signInToken as string,
        });
        setActive({
          session: res.createdSessionId,
          beforeEmit: () => setSignInProcessed(true)
        });
      } catch (err) {
        setSignInProcessed(true);
      }
    };

    aFunc();
  }, [signIn, setActive]);

  if (!signInToken) {
    return <div>no token provided</div>;
  }

  if (!signInProcessed) {
    return <div>loading</div>;
  }

  if (!user) {
    return <div>error invalid token</div>;
  }

  return <div>Signed in as {user.id}</div>;
};

export default AcceptToken;
```

```jsx filename="accept-token.js"
// Grab the sign in token from the query string
const queryParams = new URLSearchParams(window.location.search);
const signInToken = queryParams.get('token');

const { signIn, setActive } = useSignIn();

// Create a sign in with the ticket strategy, and the sign-in-token
const res = await signIn.create({
  strategy: "ticket",
  ticket: "signInToken",
});

// Set the session as active, and then do whatever you need to!
setActive({
  session: res.createdSessionId,
  beforeEmit: () => console.log("SignedIn!")
});
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

Commit message:

magic link changed to email link

docs/custom-flows/embedded-magic-links.mdx, after:

---
title: Embeddable email links
description: Learn how to build custom email link flows to increase user engagement and reduce drop off in transactional emails, SMS's, and anywhere else you can imagine.
---

# Embeddable email links

An "email link" is a link, that when pressed, will automatically authenticate your user, so that they can quickly perform some action on your site with less friction than if they had to sign in manually.

Common use cases include:

- Welcome emails, when users are added off a waitlist
- Promotional emails for users
- Recovering abandoned carts
- Surveys or questionnaires

## Creating email links

Embeddable email links leverage [sign-in tokens](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Sign-in-Tokens#operation/CreateSignInToken) which can be created from your backend.

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.clerk.com/v1/sign_in_tokens' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{bapi}}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "user_id": "user_28dVmJleKwFWrefTJN7skmrbtJi",
  }'
```

This will return a token, which can then be embedded as a query param in any link, something like:

`https://your-site.com/welcome?token=THE_TOKEN`

Once you have the link, this can be embedded anywhere, such as an email.

## Accepting email links

Now that you have a way to process a token, you'll need to setup a page on your frontend to get the token from the query string, call the sign in function, then perform whatever action you originally had in mind.

Signing a user in with a token is very similar to all of our other custom flows.

<CodeBlockTabs type="framework" options={["Next.js", "React"]}>
```jsx filename="pages/accept-token.jsx"
import { InferGetServerSidePropsType, GetServerSideProps } from "next";
import { useUser, useSignIn } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";

// Grab the query param server side, and pass through props
export const getServerSideProps: GetServerSideProps = async (context) => {
  return {
    props: { signInToken: context.query.token ? context.query.token : null },
  };
};

const AcceptToken = ({
  signInToken,
}: InferGetServerSidePropsType<typeof getServerSideProps>) => {
  const { signIn, setActive } = useSignIn();
  const { user } = useUser();
  const [signInProcessed, setSignInProcessed] = useState<boolean>(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    if (!signIn || !setActive || !signInToken) {
      return;
    }

    const aFunc = async () => {
      try {
        // Create a signIn with the token, note that you need to use the "ticket" strategy.
        const res = await signIn.create({
          strategy: "ticket",
          ticket: signInToken as string,
        });
        setActive({
          session: res.createdSessionId,
          beforeEmit: () => setSignInProcessed(true)
        });
      } catch (err) {
        setSignInProcessed(true);
      }
    };

    aFunc();
  }, [signIn, setActive]);

  if (!signInToken) {
    return <div>no token provided</div>;
  }

  if (!signInProcessed) {
    return <div>loading</div>;
  }

  if (!user) {
    return <div>error invalid token</div>;
  }

  return <div>Signed in as {user.id}</div>;
};

export default AcceptToken;
```

```jsx filename="accept-token.js"
// Grab the sign in token from the query string
const queryParams = new URLSearchParams(window.location.search);
const signInToken = queryParams.get('token');

const { signIn, setActive } = useSignIn();

// Create a sign in with the ticket strategy, and the sign-in-token
const res = await signIn.create({
  strategy: "ticket",
  ticket: "signInToken",
});

// Set the session as active, and then do whatever you need to!
setActive({
  session: res.createdSessionId,
  beforeEmit: () => console.log("SignedIn!")
});
```
</CodeBlockTabs>
